# Specification
The following specification I extracted by playing around with the [original project](https://github.com/ltratt/cmdseq).

This is a command line executable which takes command line arguments in order to function. If the arguments are omitted completely or prove wrong the text message `Usage: cmdseq [-d <count dir>] <count1> <cmd1> [... <countn> <cmdn>]` should be printed on the console.

`[-d <count dir>]` optionally allows us to specify the directory where to store program data. The default directory should be set to `/tmp`.

The important arguments that the user should enter consist of a sequence of pair tuples. The `1st` element of each tuple indicates the number of times we should execute the command associated with the tuple. The `2nd` element is the command to execute. Running the program executes one command at a time. A note is made of where in the sequence of tuples to select the next command to use next time the program is executed with the same arguments.

The program moves on the next tuple when it executes the command the specified number of times. When the tuple sequence is passed over once the program should being as if when the user ran the program the first time.

Simple error checking consists of making sure that the number of important arguments entered is even so that we can create full tuples from them.

The main functionality is achieved by maintaining a cookie file. The file initially stores `0`. Each time the program runs this number is incremented before being written over the original number read from the file except in one special case. When the number becomes equal to the sum of all `1st` elements of all tuples we write `0` again in the file to simulate a 'wrap round' of the sequence entered.

In order for multiple command sequences to be safely used, the cookie file name should be generated by appending the string `cmdseq.` to a unique reference generated by inputting the string of the important arguments to the first hash command we find on the user's system and then selecting the first 16 characters (again using system commands) from the result.

Hash commands that we accept are `sha256`, `sha256sum`, `md5`, `md5sum`. If those commands are not found prompt `No usable hash command found. Install sha256 / md5.`
